README.md, before:

# Community contributed blocklets

This repository contains a set of scripts (a.k.a. *blocklets*) for 
[i3blocks](https://github.com/vivien/i3blocks), contributed by the 
community.

It is officially maintained by @kb100 with the help of 
a bench of active i3blocks crafters.

Each release of this repository will be guaranteed to work against 
a given [release](https://github.com/vivien/i3blocks/releases) of 
i3blocks (a.k.a. *core*).

contrib | core
------- | ----
master  | master
next    | next

You may want to take a look at the individual blocklet directories,
which contain descriptions, screenshots, and installation/configuration 
instructions.
Note: configurations reference `$SCRIPT_DIR`, meaning the directory that you put
the script into. 
You must change `$SCRIPT_DIR` appropriately to coincide with where you put
your scripts, for more info see the [FAQ](https://github.com/vivien/i3blocks-contrib/wiki/FAQ#blocklets-refer-to-script_dir-what-does-that-mean-how-can-i-use-it).

Want to contribute?
Great!
Check the [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/vivien/i3blocks-contrib/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
in order to get started.

**THIS BRANCH CURRENTLY FROZEN, SUBMIT ALL PULL REQUESTS AGAINST THE NEXT BRANCH**

Happy crafting!

Commit message:

Update README to let users know of dynamic properties

README.md, after:

# Community contributed blocklets

This repository contains a set of scripts (a.k.a. *blocklets*) for 
[i3blocks](https://github.com/vivien/i3blocks), contributed by the 
community.

It is officially maintained by @kb100 with the help of 
a bench of active i3blocks crafters.

Each release of this repository will be guaranteed to work against 
a given [release](https://github.com/vivien/i3blocks/releases) of 
i3blocks (a.k.a. *core*).

contrib | core
------- | ----
master  | master

You may want to take a look at the individual blocklet directories,
which contain descriptions, screenshots, and installation/configuration 
instructions.
Note: configurations reference `$SCRIPT_DIR`, meaning the directory that you put
the script into. 
You must change `$SCRIPT_DIR` appropriately to coincide with where you put
your scripts, for more info see the [FAQ](https://github.com/vivien/i3blocks-contrib/wiki/FAQ#blocklets-refer-to-script_dir-what-does-that-mean-how-can-i-use-it).

Want to contribute?
Great!
Check the [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/vivien/i3blocks-contrib/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
in order to get started.

*Note: i3blocks now supports dynamics properties, and all scripts have been updated to do the same.
i3blocks-contrib requires a version of i3blocks that supports dynamics properties, so upgrade as necessary.*

Happy crafting!
